[MUSIC]
Okay, so before we get started, we've
object [UNKNOWN] programing within
Python and the use of classes and objects
and what you need
to understand first is a couple of
different terms, so here's
a list of all the terms that you'll need
for all [UNKNOWN].
Although I may not mention all of them you
will, come across
them at some point so I, I will explain
them for you.
So first of all what is a class?
Well a class is a user defined prototype
for object that
defines a set of attributes that
characterise any object of the class.
The attributes are data members or
class members and instant, instance meant
variables.
And methods and bridge accessed via dot
notation.
So that's a very, very broad sort of
overview of what a class is
and to, in laymens terms is basically a
place on which you can store methods.
Which I'll go into a few minute, moments.
All together along with variables and so
on so
that they are well accessible within the
same area.
So it is an easy and efficient way of
storing all similar
code together so that you can call it if
you need to.
And a class variable, is a variable that
is shared by all instances of the class.
So a class can be initialized multiple
times and
that is the main purpose behind having a
class.
You can have two of them running
simultaneously
and you won't have them conflict with each
other.
Whereas if you did it with just straight
functions, they could do.
And then we have data member, which is a
class variable or
instance variable that holds data
associated
with the class and it's subjects.
And then we have, a instance variable,
which is a variable, that is
defined inside a method, and belongs only
to the current instance of a class.
So, it's sort of like local variable,
which we've
discussed before, but is specific to an
initialized class.
So, each one of these, instance variables
or depend, depe,
vary depending on which instance of a
class we are using.
I'll get onto all of this in more detail
throughout the rest of this chapter.
Inheritance is the transfer of
characteristics of a
class to another class that are derived
from it.
So you could have two classes, and one of
them, for example,
being, animals, and then you could have
two classes coming off of that.
Which inherit all of the things from
animals, so say, an
animal can breathe, an animal can eat, and
an animal can sleep.
And you might get, say, a dog, in which
case
it can pant, it can run, and it can bark.
And you might have a cat, which inherited,
inherits from animals
as well because it can do all of the
things an animal
can do, plus it can meow, it can sleep
very well, it
can eat very well, and that's, and it can
hunt, for example.
And, so, you can see that.
And, an actual class can be a very broad
thing and then you can define it.
Just more define things down the line by
using inheritance.
An instance is, an instance is an
individual object of a certain class.
So it is,
say if we had cats, then we might have, we
might call the cat
for, we might call four cat with classes,
and each one have
a different name, each one of those is an
instance of the class.
initiate, initial it, initiation
is, once a class has been, called, so once
you're initializing that class, it's the
on,
it's the process of creating the class.
So you can have a set of functions that
are
called on it as soon as you, as soon as
you call the class it, you can have,
methods, Which
run instantly which help you set up
certain variables for example.
A method is a special type of function
that is defined in class definition.
So it's just a function which is within a
class basically.
And then an object is a unique instance of
a data structure, as defined by its class.
An object comprises of, both data and
[UNKNOWN] switch
are, class variables, and instance
variables, and methods, as well.
So those are all the terms that you need
to know for object
orientated programming, well at least
that's all
the terms that you at this stage.
Some of them we won't come across and some
of them we will.
So, if you, get confused, just make a note
of
each one or, watch this video a couple of
times.
And it will help you significantly
understand
what I'm talking about throughout the
actual chapter.
So thank you for watching and I'll see you
in the next video.
[MUSIC]